Right, so let's talk about some out
of the ordinary situations when creating
and invoking overloaded methods.
So previously I'd talked about overloading methods
and how the Java virtual machine resolves
which overloaded method is executed.
Let's go through another example of that.
So we're in our methods project again,
we're going to create a new class,
we're gonna call this one, OverloadTests.
Okay, so there's our code.
You can see here that we've got a calculator class
that's got multiple static overloaded methods for add.
Which is a calculator add method
and in our overloaded test class,
we're calling the Calculator.add method,
passing the relevant parameters
to access the various overloaded methods.
So if you run this firstly.
We can see the output at the bottom of the screen.
So the first two calls to calculator add,
that's these ones here,
use the method that has the var arg parameters for int.
Now we'd expect that for the second call on line 41,
because there's three arguments there,
but what about the first?
Did you expect that first call
to go to our int plus long overloaded method?
In other words, to the one that I find on line 18?
So let's make a change to that.
At the moment you can see
that it's using a long wrapper class,
that's the second argument.
If I paste in the code, we're now using a long primitive,
in the method signature on line 18.
Let's run the code.
There you can see we've got a different result now
in the output pane for both the first
and third calls to calculator add.
Now using the int plus long method,
as opposed to using the var arguments method
that it was previously executing.
So you can see that a primitive data-type int
will get widened to a long
as it looks for a matching method parameter
but it won't ever become a long wrapper,
which is why a method with a long wrapper parameter
won't match an int primitive parameter.
The third call to add, pass an int and a long literal.
You can see that on line 44.
When our method parameter was long,
long as in the wrapper, it matched
and it also matches the long primitive.
All right, so moving on now.
Let's add another method
that has a long as a second parameter.
I'll add this right at the bottom of the calculator class
and if you run this now,
we can see that the method with the primitive long
takes precedence over a method
with the wrapper class long
if you have both in the same class.
All right and moving down back to our tests again,
we've got a call that uses a double literal on line 52.
Basically that's matching
the method we've created up here on line 12,
that takes two arguments, an int and a double.
And you can see that in the output
at the bottom of the screen.
What happens when I change the double to a float?
Now I'll do that by adding the post fix f,
now suddenly we've got an error,
can't resolve method, add int comma float.
Basically an overloaded method doesn't exist
for what is needed, in this case,
an int and a float for the calculator add class.
Now this is another example of a float literal,
never becoming a double wrapper.
So therefore it's not gonna match an int
and a double wrapper and all the other methods
that we've defined obviously do not match this, either.
So let's just change that, or go back to what we had before,
so the code's now valid again.
And I wanna look at the var args methods, one last time.
Now what I wanna do here,
is make a change to one of these calculator add methods.
And specifically the one I wanna change is the one
that we defined here on line 18,
that takes two permitted types, int and long,
so I'm going to change that, paste in the code.
So what have we done here?
Well we've added another overloaded method
with variable arguments,
the var args is the last parameter on line 18.
So this is a valid overloaded method.
So everything's fine there,
but if we look down the code now,
in our main method, we've got a compile error
as you can see there,
and if you hover over it,
the error we've got is ambiguous method call
that's both the one that's int
and then a variable arguments int,
as well as the variable arguments int,
it's confused as to which one now.
Basically, the JVM at this point,
can't figure out which method it should use.
The method that only has variable arguments, the second one,
that we defined on line 27
or the method that's got both a int
and a variable argument defined,
which was the one on line 18.
So basically, looking at that code on line 18,
if we change this now,
at the moment you can see,
it's got an int and a variable arguments int as well.
Change the int to a long,
you can see that the code is now valid, we can run this
and it actually works.
But looking at the output,
we can see that our newly pasted in method,
the one up here, int var args long b,
was never executed, basically never called.
So let's go back to the code
and come down here to our single var args method,
the one with only the one parameter here on line 27.
And if I change that, paste in some new code,
basically you can see what I've done there.
I've changed it from an int variable arguments
to a long variable arguments variable.
We run the code, we now see
that the variable arguments method is executed.
That's obviously the one up here, on line 18.
Now if you just wanted to call the other method,
this one up here, defined on line 27,
with just the single long variable arguments.
You'd first need to set the first value to a long.
Now, this type of method overloading
with the various variable arguments parameters,
is not recommended, but it may well find it's way
into an exam question,
which is why we've covered it here.
All right so that's that.
So moving on, next we're coming up
with a quiz, go through that.
And then I'll see you in the video that follows after that.